Answer:

Using Balzaq's conceptual definition of securitization, it is possible to construct the securitization of the physical conflict: the 'Big Muddy' watering hole - the central asset under dispute - is fundamentally the private property of the Maragon family. However, both the Hannassasey and Terril families exhibit entitlement in their conceptualization of the 'Big Muddy' as some form of communal good. Even one of Major Terril's men, before driving Hennessasey's cattle off the area, expresses as much. Simultaneously, both families conceive of the threat of the other party monopolizing that same common good as justification for their monopolization.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
This is best exemplified by the coastal cultural trappings that the Terril family wears and how the Hannassey patriarch - Rufus - sees his rival. When Rufus excoriates Major at the Gala celebrating the Terril Heiress' upcoming wedding, the Hannassey patriarch levels essentially a claim of hypocrisy - that no matter how much the Terrils dress and pretend to act like their future son-in-law, they fundamentally come from the same stock of the Hannasseys and act in the same way.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
The escalation of the conflict, although technically marked initially by the physical harassment of Jim McKay by a Hannassey posse, has its roots not in grievance over honor but instead in the perceived risk of unanswered aggression inviting further aggression. This perception can be partly explained by applying Finnemore's 'obviousness' concept. While to the watcher or the legal framework of the time(represented by Jim McKay's attempts at diplomatic resolution and peaceful negotiation), it may seem obvious that a race to the bottom of the proverbial prisoner dilemma's game is a zero-sum endeavor, it is patently 'obvious' to both the Hannassey and Terril families that yielding any ground to the other party is offense to their honor and their security. It is offensive to their honor precisely because of the threat posed to their property (cattle) and, therefore, the welfare of their clan.

A second and perhaps more potent contribution to conflict escalation is the threat represented by McKay. Given his exhibition of peaceful intervention, except in unique circumstances, McKay comes to embody the threat of Maragon and later his ownership over the 'Big Muddy.' That is, McKay represents the threat of multilateral intervention from his own power or calling upon the organs of the state(for who else will enforce his property claim?). McKay is more than willing to fight if necessary, exemplified by his fight with Leech, but nonetheless threatens the involvement, if only implicitly, of the law due to his foreignness in the area. With him and his wealth, McKay brings Baltimore - a repudiation of honor-based mediation through the violence of the West.

Jim McKay's perspective on conflict mediation is informed by his past experiences as a naval captain. In his dialogue with Julie Maragon at her cabin, McKay suffers from some form of sensory overload, indicating a tumultuous history with violence. On this basis, McKay's evolving mediation strategy evolves and can be characterized in two separate stages within Butler's conflict management conceptual field: Adjudication and negotiation.

Initially, McKay exerts minimal coercive force in settling minor disputes, including the inciting incident at the beginning of the move. Over the movie's runtime, however, as McKay begins to understand how conflicts are settled in the West, man-to-man, without the input of third parties, McKay comes to believe that force must be applied with greater amplitude without compromising his non-violent approach. Thus, McKay's strategy can be classified as shifting to negotiation through invoking the sovereignty of property and, therefore, the United States of America.

The success of this shifting strategy is ambiguous. In the end, it is the death of both the Hannassay and Terril patriarchs in a duel that ultimately signals the end of the conflict. This event, which, on the balance of probabilities, would've occurred anyway, could have ended the dispute. Yet, without McKay's eventual, reluctant duel with Buck and subsequent grace to the Hannassay scion, the conflict may have also continued. Ultimately, McKay's conflict mediation was successful only in preventing the escalation of the conflict in a limited capacity, and ensuring that the conflict would not persist through his acquisition of the 'Big Muddy'
